hey crafty friends this is Jenny from
craft test dummies comm and today I'm
answering a question what else can you
use to blend coloured pencils besides
gamsol there are a number of odd
different alternatives I'm going to
share with you okay so you know I've
been a little bit on a practicum with
colored pencils and I've done two
different videos and I will somehow make
links over in this area so you can see
the overview of gamsol which is a
name-brand for an odorless mineral
spirit and what that is is to solve it
basically that will break down the wax
in pencils so that you can move the
pigments around and make it all blend
being pretty so ah the thing is about
odorless mineral spirits is that it is
flammable and it is toxic and even
though you can't smell the fumes there
are still fumes to be had which are bad
for your brain and nobody wants crafts
that are bad for your brain so there are
some other alternatives one is terpenoid
and natural and this particular product
is non-toxic non-flammable and also does
not have an odor this is a brush cleaner
it also has a slightly yellow hue but in
my experiments it doesn't actually
change the color of your your pigments
or your colored pencils as you're
blending them another great alternative
is baby oil you probably already have
some this lying around somewhere
notice how old and raggedy my bottle is
it's because my babies are old but I
still have some lying around and it
works pretty darn well so let's get
right to the experiment there and you
can see how each of these look okay so
let's start off here with the gamsol
which is what I've been playing with and
just for comparison purposes here are
two different kinds of pencils and I use
by blending them with the gamsol so
here's a Crayola pencil a less expensive
one and a prismacolor are more expensive
and you can see that yep
they both blend it very nicely with the
gamsol but what about the terpenoid well
first of all here's how it looks when
you pour it in it is kind of that amber
color there really isn't an odor to
speak of maybe almost like a little bit
like a citric cleanser you know those
orange glow type stuff so it does have
that little bit of a smell to it
here the two samples of what I've
learned it though so here's the Crayola
pencil and here's the prismacolor both
blended with the terpenoid and as you
can see they blend it out pretty nicely
if I just compare it right here with the
gamsol real quick you can see that I
still got some
you know comparable blending options so
then number three is baby oil and here
we go again
let me swallow I got very nice blending
options with both the Crayola pencil and
the prismacolor maybe if you're going to
use the baby oil maybe a slightly higher
pigmented pencil might be a better thing
because it blends if it's got more
pigment in it but up the plus here is
that the baby oil actually smells very
nice lastly we'll leave you with this
last little sample this is one I did
with prismacolor using gamsol on some
super smooth cardstock and this one I
did with the cheapest dollar store
pencils I could find a q-tip and some
baby oil so you know we might have
comments about maybe one pencil is a
little better than the other pencil but
as far as blending goes I think that you
can get away with using your baby oil if
this is a new technique for you and you
don't invest either in the money of the
mineral spirits or be you're a little
worried about the toxic factor so there
you have it you can spend fifteen to
twenty five dollars buying supplies
colored pencils gamsol blending stubs to
get this blended pencil effect or you
could spend about three bucks at the
dollar store and do it that way I hope
you found this information helpful and
informative and if so I would love it if
you would give it a thumbs up and if
you're gonna give it a thumbs down
please let me know why I'm always
interested why do you guys put thumbs
down if you don't tell me anyway I
digress
ah we would love it if you subscribe to
the channel just click this magical box
just roll your
fool and you can subscribe to our
channel and as always have fun and have
a happy day
whoo